Permissions-Policy-Report-Only and Reporting API updates (#43853)
mdn/content: files/en-us/web/api/permissionspolicyviolationreport/index.md

The `PermissionsPolicyViolationReport` dictionary of the [Reporting API](/en-US/docs/Web/API/Reporting_API) represents a report that is generated when a document violates its [Permissions Policy](/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Guides/Permissions_Policy).

> Reports of this type can be observed from within a page using a {{domxref("ReportingObserver")}}, and a serialized version can be sent to a reporting endpoint server.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Reports of this type can be observed from within a page using a {{domxref("ReportingObserver")}}, and a serialized version can be sent to a reporting server endpoint.
```

Permissions Policy violations are reported when a document attempts to use a browser feature that is blocked by its [Permissions Policy](/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Guides/Permissions_Policy).
The policy is set using the {{httpheader("Permissions-Policy")}} HTTP header, or a `<meta http-equiv="permissions-policy">` element.
Violations of the policy may also be reported but not enforced using the {{httpheader("Permissions-Policy-Report-Only")}} HTTP header, or a `<meta http-equiv="permissions-policy-report-only">` element.

You can monitor for Permissions-Policy violation reports within the page that sets the policy using the [Reporting API](/en-US/docs/Web/API/Reporting_API).
To do this you create a {{domxref("ReportingObserver")}} object to listen for reports, passing a callback method and an (optional) `options` property specifying the types of reports that you want to report on.
The callback method is then called with reports of the requested types, passing a report object.

> For `Permissions-Policy` or `Permissions-Policy-Report-Only` violations, the object will be a `PermissionsPolicyViolationReport` instance with `PermissionsPolicyViolationReport.type == "permissions-policy-violation"`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For `Permissions-Policy` or `Permissions-Policy-Report-Only` violations, the object will be a `PermissionsPolicyViolationReport` instance with `PermissionsPolicyViolationReport.type === "permissions-policy-violation"`.
```

?

    "lineNumber": 44,
    "columnNumber": 29,
    "featureId": "geolocation",
    "disposition": "enforce", // Policy was enforced!
    "message": "Permissions policy violation: geolocation access has been blocked because of a permissions policy applied to the current document."
  }
}
```

> Violation reports may also be sent as a JSON object in a {{httpmethod("POST")}} request to the [reporting server endpoint](/en-US/docs/Web/API/Reporting_API#reporting_server_endpoints) indicated by name in a per-directive `report-to` parameter, or otherwise to the [`default` reporting server endpoint](/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Reference/Headers/Reporting-Endpoints#default_reporting_endpoint).

Author: ```suggestion
Violation reports may also be sent as a JSON object in a {{httpmethod("POST")}} request to the [reporting server endpoint](/en-US/docs/Web/API/Reporting_API#reporting_server_endpoints) indicated by name in a per-directive `report-to` parameter, with fallback to the [`default` reporting server endpoint](/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Reference/Headers/Reporting-Endpoints#default_reporting_endpoint) (if defined).
```

### Sending a Permissions Policy violation report to a reporting endpoint

This example shows how to configure reporting of `Permissions-Policy` violations to a server endpoint.

The response headers below block geolocation and define the reporting endpoint name for the feature as "geo_endpoint".

> The {{HTTPHeader("Reporting-Endpoints")}} HTTP response header is used to define URL of this endpoint name.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The {{HTTPHeader("Reporting-Endpoints")}} HTTP response header is used to define the URL of this endpoint name.
```

```http

> Reporting-Endpoints: geo_endpoint="https://example.com/reports"

Author: FYI Discovered you can set the specific endpoint, so replaced the default here as the "main way"

Permissions-Policy: geolocation=();report-to=geo_endpoint
```

> [!NOTE]

> > To send all violation reports to the same endpoint we might instead define the [`"default"` reporting endpoint](/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Reference/Headers/Reporting-Endpoints#default_reporting_endpoint):

Reviewer: AIUI, the default endpoint is used only if it is defined, and a specific endpoint for that report type is not defined. If both are defined, the specific endpoint will take precedence. Worth explaining?

Author: Yes, but not here. Specifically:
1. Your AIUI is correct
2. Here I am trying to capture that the default is useful if you don't care to have separate reporting endpoints.
3. The point you are making is captured in https://github.com/mdn/content/pull/43853/changes#r3114187502 above - except for the fact that if no endpoint is defined you get no server report - that is "the expectation" so no need to state.

Reviewer: OK
